.TH CROSSMACRO 1 "2026-02-28" "CrossMacro" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
crossmacro \- keyboard and mouse macro automation CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crossmacro
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] [\fB\-\-start-minimized\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
(no arguments) starts GUI mode
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBplay\fR \fIMACRO_FILE\fR [\fB\-\-speed\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-loop\fR] [\fB\-\-repeat\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-repeat-delay-ms\fR \fIMS\fR] [\fB\-\-countdown\fR \fISEC\fR] [\fB\-\-timeout\fR \fISEC\fR]
[\fB\-\-dry-run\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBmacro validate\fR \fIMACRO_FILE\fR [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBmacro info\fR \fIMACRO_FILE\fR [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBdoctor\fR [\fB\-\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBsettings get\fR [\fIKEY\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBsettings set\fR \fIKEY\fR \fIVALUE\fR [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBschedule list\fR [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBschedule run\fR \fITASK_ID\fR [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBshortcut list\fR [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBshortcut run\fR \fITASK_ID\fR [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBrecord\fR (\fB\-\-output\fR|\fB\-o\fR) \fIMACRO_FILE\fR [\fB\-\-mouse\fR \fIBOOL\fR] [\fB\-\-keyboard\fR \fIBOOL\fR]
[\fB\-\-mode\fR \fIauto|absolute|relative\fR] [\fB\-\-skip-initial-zero\fR] [\fB\-\-duration\fR \fISEC\fR]
[\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBrun\fR [\fB\-\-step\fR \fISTEP\fR]... [\fB\-\-file\fR \fISTEPS_FILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-speed\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-countdown\fR \fISEC\fR] [\fB\-\-timeout\fR \fISEC\fR]
[\fB\-\-dry-run\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBrun\fR \fISTEP_COMMAND\fR [\fISTEP_COMMAND\fR]... [\fB\-\-file\fR \fISTEPS_FILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-speed\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-countdown\fR \fISEC\fR] [\fB\-\-timeout\fR \fISEC\fR]
[\fB\-\-dry-run\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fBheadless\fR [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.br
.B crossmacro
\fB\-\-headless\fR [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
CrossMacro provides GUI and CLI workflows for macro playback, validation, recording,
environment diagnostics, and background headless runtime.
If no CLI command is provided, CrossMacro starts GUI mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show command help.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version.
.TP
.B \-\-start-minimized
Start GUI minimized. When tray support is available, CrossMacro starts hidden to tray instead.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Print command output as JSON.
.TP
.B \-\-log-level \fILEVEL\fR
Override logging level for the current command.
Supported values: Verbose, Debug, Information, Warning, Error, Fatal.
.SH HELP AND ROUTING POLICY
.TP
.B crossmacro \-\-help
Shows top-level help.
.TP
.B crossmacro <command> \-\-help
Shows help for that command topic (for example \fBrun\fR or \fBrecord\fR).
.TP
.B Standalone command options
Standalone CLI-only options such as \fB\-\-json\fR and \fB\-\-log-level\fR require a command and return exit code 2.
.TP
.B Non-CLI startup switches
Known GUI startup switches are routed to GUI startup (for example \fB--start-minimized\fR, \fB--drm\fR, \fB--fbdev\fR, \fB--display\fR, Finder-style \fB-psn_*\fR).
.TP
.B Unknown tokens
Unknown commands/options return CLI parse error (exit code 2) instead of falling through to GUI.
.SH OPTION ALIASES
.TP
.B record \-\-output, \-o
Both forms are accepted and required for output path selection.
.TP
.B headless, \-\-headless
Both forms start headless runtime mode.
.SH VALUE RULES
.TP
.B play
\fB\-\-repeat\fR, \fB\-\-repeat-delay-ms\fR, \fB\-\-countdown\fR, and \fB\-\-timeout\fR must be >= 0.
Providing \fB\-\-loop\fR without \fB\-\-repeat\fR means infinite loop mode.
Providing \fB\-\-repeat\fR with value > 0 implies loop semantics for that playback run.
\fB\-\-repeat 0\fR requires \fB\-\-loop\fR (infinite mode).
.TP
.B run
\fB\-\-speed\fR must be between 0.1 and 10.0.
\fB\-\-countdown\fR and \fB\-\-timeout\fR must be >= 0.
.TP
.B record
\fB\-\-duration\fR must be >= 0, and at least one of \fB\-\-mouse\fR or \fB\-\-keyboard\fR must be true.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B play
Load and play a macro file without starting GUI.
.TP
.B macro validate
Validate macro syntax and playback compatibility.
.TP
.B macro info
Show macro metadata and event breakdown.
.TP
.B doctor
Run environment and input capability diagnostics.
.TP
.B settings get|set
Read or update scriptable settings keys.
.TP
.B schedule list|run
Inspect schedule tasks or trigger a schedule task manually.
.TP
.B shortcut list|run
Inspect shortcut tasks or trigger a shortcut task manually.
.TP
.B record
Record input events and save a macro file.
.TP
.B run
Run inline event steps directly from CLI (without a .macro file).
Supported steps:
\fBmove abs|rel\fR, \fBdown\fR, \fBup\fR, \fBclick\fR, \fBscroll\fR,
\fBkey down|up\fR, \fBtap\fR, \fBdelay\fR, \fBtype\fR,
\fBset\fR variables, \fBinc\fR/\fBdec\fR counters,
\fBrepeat\fR blocks, \fBif\fR/\fBelse\fR, \fBwhile\fR, and \fBfor\fR blocks,
plus loop control with \fBbreak\fR and \fBcontinue\fR.
Randomized timing is supported with
\fBdelay random <min> <max>\fR or \fBdelay random <min>..<max>\fR.
.TP
.B headless
Run background services without GUI (hotkeys, scheduler, shortcuts, text expansion)
until interrupted.
Recording hotkey toggles capture start/stop.
Playback hotkey toggles play/stop for the last macro recorded in the same headless session.
Pause hotkey toggles pause/resume for active playback.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid arguments or parsing error.
.TP
.B 3
File access/read error.
.TP
.B 4
Macro validation error.
.TP
.B 5
Environment/permission/runtime readiness error.
.TP
.B 6
Runtime playback or capture error.
.TP
.B 130
Interrupted by signal (for example Ctrl+C).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B crossmacro play ./demo.macro --speed 1.25 --repeat 3
Play a macro file three times.
.TP
.B crossmacro doctor --json
Run diagnostics and print JSON.
.TP
.B crossmacro run --step "move abs 800 400" --step "click left" --dry-run
Compile and validate direct run steps without sending input.
.TP
.B crossmacro run --step "move abs 800 400" --step "click current left"
Force click at live cursor even after absolute moves.
.TP
.B crossmacro run move rel 100 0 delay 30 click left
Execute chained inline run steps in sequence.
.TP
.B crossmacro run --step "set n=3" --step "repeat $n {" --step "click left" --step "delay random 20 50" --step "}"
Run a repeated block with variable substitution and randomized delay.
.TP
.B crossmacro run --step "set i=0" --step "while $i < 10 {" --step "click left" --step "inc i" --step "}"
Run a bounded while loop with explicit counter increment.
.TP
.B crossmacro run --step "for n from 1 to 5 step 2 {" --step "click right" --step "}"
Run a for loop with custom step value.
.TP
.B crossmacro run --file ./steps.txt
Load run steps from a plain text file (one step per line, '#' comments allowed).
.TP
.B crossmacro headless
Start headless runtime and keep running until interrupted.
.TP
.B crossmacro \-\-start-minimized
Start GUI hidden to tray when tray icon support is available for the current session.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project repository: https://github.com/alper-han/CrossMacro
